samples: matter: Set custom keystore manager during the init. (#20103)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/protocols/matter/end_product/security.rst

     - HMAC SHA-256 128-bit keys
     - 1
     - For each ICD user
     - 10 (2 ICD users for each Matter fabric)
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ICD_CLIENTS_PER_FABRIC`
   * - Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) symmetric Key
     - AES 128-bit keys
     - 1
     - For each ICD user
     - 10 (2 ICD users for each Matter fabric)
     - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ICD_CLIENTS_PER_FABRIC`
   * - Group key [3]_
     - AES 128-bit keys
     - 1
     - For each group
     - 15 (3 groups for each Matter fabric)
     - Not a Kconfig option, see ``CHIP_CONFIG_MAX_GROUP_ENDPOINTS_PER_FABRIC`` Matter config.
   * - Device Attestation Certificate (DAC) private key
     - ECC secp256r1 key pair
     - 2
     - For each device
     - 1
     - Not configurable

.. [3] Group keys are not stored in the KMU yet, but the slots are reserved for the future usage.
       A key may be shared between multiple groups, so the number of slots needed for group keys may be lower than the number of groups.
       Three group keys are assumed for each Matter fabric.

The default slots range allows storing more cryptographic materials than the minimum required according to the Matter specification.

> A minimum of 46 slots is required for cryptographic materials, including the DAC private key to support 5 fabrics (minimum required by the specification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A minimum of 46 slots is required for cryptographic materials, including the DAC private key to support five fabrics (minimum required by the specification).
```

A single Matter fabric requires at least nine KMU slots.

The default range has been chosen to support up to eight Matter fabrics, 32 ICD keys (16 ICD users), and 24 group keys.
You can change the default Kconfig option for each crypto material to adjust the number of slots, but you must ensure that the total number of slots fits within the defined range.
If you overlap the slots range, the appropriate compilation error will be shown:

.. code-block:: console

    error: "The number of slots exceeds the range of the KMU defined in CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START and CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_END"

> For example, to fill the default slots range and support 8 Matter fabrics, 3 group keys per fabric, and 2 ICD users per fabric, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` Kconfig option to 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to fill the default slots range and support eight Matter fabrics, three group keys per fabric, and two ICD users for each fabric, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` Kconfig option to ``8``.
```

Slots arrangement within the slot range defined by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_END` Kconfig options is calculated automatically in the code in the following way:

.. list-table:: KMU slots arrangement for Matter crypto materials
  :widths: auto
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Crypto material
    - Slot range start
    - Slot range end

>     - Default slot range for 8 Matter fabrics to fit the default range (100-180)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Default slot range for eight Matter fabrics to fit the default range (100-180)
```

  * - Node Operational Certificate (NOC) private key
    - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START`
    - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` + (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` * 2)
    - 100 - 115
  * - Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) Token + ICD symmetric Key
    - End of NOC slots
    - End of NOC slots + (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ICD_CLIENTS_PER_FABRIC` * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` * 2)
    - 116 - 147
  * - Group keys
    - End of ICD slots
    - End of ICD slots + (3 * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS`)
    - 148 - 171
  * - Device Attestation Certificate (DAC) private key
    - Configurable with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT_ID`
    - DAC private key start slot + 1 (non-encrypted) or + 3 (encrypted)
    - 176 - 179 (encrypted) or 178 - 179 (non-encrypted)

.. important::

  Once a slot range is defined, it should not be changed during the firmware update process.

>   Changing the slot range will result in the loss of all cryptographic materials stored in the KMU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Changing the slot range will result in loss of all cryptographic materials stored in the KMU.
```

  You can safely change slot ranges only when the device is in the factory state and no cryptographic materials are stored in the KMU.

>   Otherwise, to extend the slot range beyond the previously defined range and keep the existing cryptographic materials stored in the KMU complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Otherwise, to extend the slot range beyond the previously defined range and keep the existing cryptographic materials stored in the KMU, complete the following steps:
```

  1. Locate the :file:`src/platform/nrfconnect/KMUKeyAllocator.h` file in the Matter repository, or create a new one with the same functionality.
  #. Modify the file content to redirect the keys to the new slot range by implementing the ``GetDacKeyId``, ``GetOpKeyId``, and ``AllocateICDKeyId`` functions.
  #. If you want to use your own implementation of the KMUKeyAllocator, assign it in your application code by calling the ``Crypto::SetPSAKeyAllocator`` method.
  #. Ensure that you have chosen an available slot range that does not overlap with any existing one.

>   #. Build an application with the new configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  #. Build your application with the new configuration.
```

    - :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` + (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` * 2)
    - 100 - 115
  * - Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) Token + ICD symmetric Key
    - End of NOC slots
    - End of NOC slots + (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_ICD_CLIENTS_PER_FABRIC` * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS` * 2)
    - 116 - 147
  * - Group keys
    - End of ICD slots
    - End of ICD slots + (3 * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_MAX_FABRICS`)
    - 148 - 171
  * - Device Attestation Certificate (DAC) private key
    - Configurable with :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_CRYPTO_PSA_DAC_PRIV_KEY_KMU_SLOT_ID`
    - DAC private key start slot + 1 (non-encrypted) or + 3 (encrypted)
    - 176 - 179 (encrypted) or 178 - 179 (non-encrypted)

.. important::

  Once a slot range is defined, it should not be changed during the firmware update process.
  Changing the slot range will result in the loss of all cryptographic materials stored in the KMU.
  To extend the slot range beyond the previously defined range, you must complete one of the following actions, depending on whether you want to keep or remove the data:

  .. tabs::

>     .. tab:: Remove the data

Reviewer 2: To be honest, i would just leave the part and instruction how to keep the data. Otherwise, ofc, re-flashing is necessary.

       To use the Oberon backend for specific cryptographic operations supported by both drivers, disable those operations in the CRACEN driver, as it takes priority when both are enabled.
       See the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers` documentation for more information.

.. _matter_platforms_security_kmu:

nRF54L Key Management Unit (KMU)
================================

> nRF54L series devices include :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF54L Series devices include :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.
```

> In this solution, the keys are stored within the available slots in the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_slots` range that are not reserved for current and future |NCS| use cases.

Reviewer 2: After looking at the doc preview, i think what we are missing here is the description that the KMU slots are used to store Matter Fabric credentials when given X KConfig is enabled - and let's document for now, that this is not enabled by default. Thoughts?

Author: Right, this description is missing, will add it. Regarding Kconfig we have a line there; `to use this feature set...`, but it seems to be ok to add a note that this is not enabled by default.

       To use the Oberon backend for specific cryptographic operations supported by both drivers, disable those operations in the CRACEN driver, as it takes priority when both are enabled.
       See the :ref:`nrf_security_drivers` documentation for more information.

.. _matter_platforms_security_kmu:

nRF54L15 Key Management Unit (KMU)
==================================

> nRF54l15 devices include :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.

Author: Ok, maybe nRF54L as it is above.

> nRF54l15 devices include :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.

Reviewer: Remember the capital L. I missed it in my review.

> nRF54l15 devices contains :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF54l15 devices include :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_cracen_peripherals` that can be used to store cryptographic keys in Matter.
```

In this solution, the keys are stored within the available slots in the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_slots` range that are not reserved for current and future |NCS| use cases.

> The default slots range used for Matter is from ``100`` to ``180``, not including the DAC private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default slots range used for Matter is from ``100`` to ``180``, excluding the DAC private key.
```

> To see configuration for DAC private key, see the :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on the DAC private key configuration, see :ref:`matter_platforms_security_dac_priv_key_kmu`.
```

> You can change the slots range by setting the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_END` Kconfig options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the slots range, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` and :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_END` Kconfig options.
```

> For now, we use the Raw usage scheme defined in the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_usage_schemes` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the Raw usage scheme defined in the :ref:`ug_nrf54l_crypto_kmu_key_usage_schemes` section is used.
```

> To use this feature set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_STORE_KEYS_IN_KMU` Kconfig option to ``y``, and switch to the ``KMUKeyAllocator`` by calling the ``chip::Crypto::SetPSAKeyAllocator`` method in your code during the Matter stack initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this feature, set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CHIP_STORE_KEYS_IN_KMU` Kconfig option to ``y``, and switch to the ``KMUKeyAllocator`` by calling the ``chip::Crypto::SetPSAKeyAllocator`` method in your code during the Matter stack initialization.
```

For example:

.. code-block:: cpp

    #include <platform/nrfconnect/KMUKeyAllocator.h>

    static KMUKeyAllocator kmuAllocator;
    Crypto::SetPSAKeyAllocator(&kmuAllocator);

> See the :file:`samples/matter/common/src/app/matter_init.cpp` for a usage example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :file:`samples/matter/common/src/app/matter_init.cpp` file for a usage example.
```

> See the :file:`samples/matter/common/src/app/matter_init.cpp` to see an usage example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :file:`samples/matter/common/src/app/matter_init.cpp` for a usage example.
```

Due to limited slots available in the KMU, the maximum number of Matter fabric is limited.
The following table shows the current number of slots used by Matter:

.. list-table:: KMU slots used by Matter crypto materials
   :widths: auto
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Crypto material in Matter
     - Key type

>      - Number of slots needed per key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Number of slots needed for a key
```

     - Multiplication

>      - Minimum number of keys

Reviewer 2: Hmm, what about to add the default range for a given materials.

Like KMU Slot ID range (or separate Range start and Range end)

`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START` (by default 100) to
`CONFIG_CHIP_KMU_SLOT_RANGE_START + 8` +  (by default 108)

(numbers are just an example).

Then for DAC also give KConfig for DAC.

Reviewer 2: Let's discuss it F2F.

>      - Minimal keys amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Minimum number of keys
```

   * - Node Operational Certificate (NOC) private key
     - ECC secp256r1 key pair
     - 2

>      - Per Matter Fabric

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - For each Matter fabric
```

>      - 5 (5 Matter fabrics per device)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - 5 (5 Matter fabrics for each device)
```

   * - Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) Token
     - HMAC SHA-256 128-bit keys
     - 1

>      - Per ICD user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - For each ICD user
```

>      - 10 (2 ICD users per Matter Fabric)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - 10 (2 ICD users for each Matter fabric)
```

   * - Intermittently Connected Device (ICD) symmetric Key
     - AES 128-bit keys
     - 1

>      - Per ICD user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - For each ICD user
```

>      - 10 (2 ICD users per Matter Fabric)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - 10 (2 ICD users for each Matter fabric)
```

   * - Device Attestation Certificate (DAC) private key
     - ECC secp256r1 key pair
     - 2

>      - Per device

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - For each device
```

     - 1
   * - Group key [3]_
     - AES 128-bit keys
     - 1

>      - Per group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - For each group
```

>      - 15 (3 groups per Matter Fabric)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - 15 (3 groups for each Matter fabric)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I know that DAC is not part of Matter Fab Credentials - but i would like to add DAC here as well and provide the default KEY_ID.

Author: We already have the DAC private key in the table.

> .. [3] Group keys are not stored in the KMU yet, but it is planned to be stored in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. [3] Group keys are not stored in the KMU yet, but the future plan is to store them.
```

> .. [3] Group keys are not stored in the KMU yet, but the future plan is to store them.

Reviewer 2: maybe.. but the slots "are reserved for the future used?"

       A key may be shared between multiple groups, so the number of slots needed for group keys may be lower than the number of groups.

>        We assume 3 grup keys per Matter Fabric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Three group keys are assumed for each Matter fabric.
```

> According to the table you can calculate the maximum number of Matter fabrics that can be stored in the KMU.
> The minimal number of slots needed for the crypto materials is 46, including the DAC private key.
> A single Matter fabric requires at least 9 KMU slots.
> The default values for the KMU slots range allows to store 8 Matter Fabrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the table, you can calculate the maximum number of Matter fabrics that can be stored in the KMU.
The minimum number of slots needed for the crypto materials is 46, including the DAC private key.
A single Matter fabric requires at least nine KMU slots.
The default value for the KMU slots range allows to store eight Matter fabrics.
```

> The default value for the KMU slots range allows to store eight Matter fabrics.

Reviewer 2: "up to eight"
